# MalariaDetector
Data taken from: https://lhncbc.nlm.nih.gov/publication/pub9932

In here, you will see an implementation of Machine Learning algorithm of sequential function that detects whether there is a sign of malaria or not. After 2 epochs, the accuracy of the algorithm reaches 0.9284.



Abstract from site:

This page hosts a repository of segmented cells from the thin blood smear slide images from the Malaria Screener research activity. To reduce the burden for microscopists in resource-constrained regions and improve diagnostic accuracy, researchers at the Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications (LHNCBC), part of National Library of Medicine (NLM), have developed a mobile application that runs on a standard Android smartphone attached to a conventional light microscope. Giemsa-stained thin blood smear slides from 150 P. falciparum-infected and 50 healthy patients were collected and photographed at Chittagong Medical College Hospital, Bangladesh. The smartphone’s built-in camera acquired images of slides for each microscopic field of view. The images were manually annotated by an expert slide reader at the Mahidol-Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit in Bangkok, Thailand. The de-identified images and annotations are archived at NLM (IRB#12972). We applied a level-set based algorithm to detect and segment the red blood cells. The dataset contains a total of 27,558 cell images with equal instances of parasitized and uninfected cells. An instance of how the patient-ID is encoded into the cell name is shown herewith: “P1” denotes the patient-ID for the cell labeled “C33P1thinF_IMG_20150619_114756a_cell_179.png”. We have also included the CSV files containing the Patient-ID to cell mappings for the parasitized and uninfected classes. The CSV file for the parasitized class contains 151 patient-ID entries. The slide images for the parasitized patient-ID “C47P8thinOriginal” are read from two different microscope models (Olympus and Motif). The CSV file for the uninfected class contains 201 entries since the normal cells from the infected patients’ slides also make it to the normal cell category (151+50 = 201).
